Rakuten International oversees 7 businesses with over 4,000 employees globally. The brand is recognized for its leadership and innovation in e-commerce, digital content, advertising, entertainment, and communications, bringing the joy of discovery and access to more than 1 billion members across the world. Our teams deliver on the company’s mission to delight merchants and customers through innovation, optimism, and teamwork.

Rakuten Rewards is a leading e-commerce company that enhances the way people shop by offering Cash Back, deals and rewards from more than 3,500 merchants. Founded in 1999, Rakuten has grown to become the go-to shopping destination for consumers, having paid out nearly $2 billion in Cash Back to its 15 million members. The company also operates ShopStyle, a leading fashion discovery destination, and Cartera Commerce, a top rewards platform for airlines and banks. For more information, visit www.rakuten.com.
 

As a Product Analyst/Analytics Engineer, you will collaborate with product, engineering, and other teams as you translate complex data into strategic recommendations. You will develop solutions to complex business problems, and present data to enable data-driven decision making. You will help shape product development initiatives, optimize user experiences, and improve overall product performance. You will also own projects to elevate KPI reporting and be the expert on the data sets and data tools that are available.

KEY RESPONSIBILITIES: 

Collaborate with Product and Engineering teams to identify opportunities, estimate impact, implement, and analyze tests.
Develop and maintain key performance indicators (KPIs) and dashboards to monitor product performance, identify trends, and generate actionable insights for stakeholders.
Perform ad hoc analysis to quickly solve time sensitive funnel conversion issues.
Collaborate with the development team to track and resolve data quality issues or discrepancies.
Support the development of data products and tools to facilitate self-service and enable analytics to scale across the company.
Provide technical expertise in extracting, integrating, and analyzing critical data.
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS: 

Strong SQL skills, comfortable working with large data sets like clickstream data on Snowflake.
2+ years of experience with Python or any other programming languages.
Experience working with reporting and visualization tools (Tableau preferred)
Strong interpersonal skills, both written and verbal, with the ability and confidence to succinctly convey complex information to senior management.
Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, with a keen attention to detail.
Experience with A/B testing is a plus.
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:         

Bachelor’s or master’s degree in a relevant field (e.g., Data science, Statistics or Data Analytics).
2+ years professional experience in data analytics.
Ability to translate data-driven learnings into stories, actionable insights and communicate to key stakeholders.
Excellent team player and ability to work in a fast-paced environment, manage multiple tasks and meet deadlines.